Okay now we are gonna talk about
the next topic which is choreography.
Now we've so far been talking
about doing transitions and
animations with individual elements.
But sometimes when you're doing
an animation for a website or a web app.
You might have multiple things that need
to actually coordinate with each other.
And so there's nothing built in for
CSS to do that.
Of course, there's JavaScript
libraries for animations.
But honestly, by using CSS variables,
we could choreograph our CSS
animations just the same.
So first of all,
what do I mean by choreography?
By choreography,
I mean multiple elements coordinating with
each other to make it seem
like one cohesive animation.
So if you think of dancers,choreography
moves, then one dancer might
do something and then in response,
the other dancer might do something else.
Then they might do things together.
So this is pretty much the same thing.
Okay, so
in order to demonstrate choreography,
let's make multiple squares or what,
we'll just make two or three, why not?
So let's see how that looks.
Okay, we're gonna get rid of
this animation real quick, well,
let's not move it like a square anymore
but let's just get rid of that right now.
Okay.
Okay, so now let's say that we
wanna make a loader in a way.
So what we wanna happen is basically had
this go then this one than this one.
And you want them to move back and
forth one after the other this.
So the first thing that we could
do is we need some sorta way and
again this is using CSS variables.
But we need some sorta way to indicate
which ball we're talking about.
So one way you could do that
right now is you could the let
well let's start by
giving it an animation.
So animation we're gonna say move right.
And that's gonna be after one second and
so
we want the film out to be both so
let's add the key frames for that.
And so we're gonna go from
transform none to transform,
let's say 25 viewpoint width.
Okay, so right now won't do anything.
Let me make sure I have everything right
so animation, move right one second, both.
What am I missing?
Let's.
So, gonna close this out.
And this should be working well.
[LAUGH] Okay, so
transform this should be translate X.
There we go.
Okay, so now it's gonna move to the right.
So I'm just refreshing the page and
showing that that's moving to the right.
Now,let's say that I
wanna choreograph this.
So it happens one at a time.
Well, because we know that there
are three, we could use nth
index to just specify an animation
delay for each one of them.
So we could say an nth index or
sorry nth child at the second and
child we wanna give it a delay.
So we're gonna say animation
delay in this is gonna be,
let's see what happens after one second.
And then for nth child three,
we can say two seconds.
So now, each one of them
is gonna happen one by one.
But there's a problem with
this let's see that we change
the overall animation
to be just 0.5 seconds.
So now you have that awkward pause
in between each of the animations.
It's not easy to just go and
find all of them.
I mean, it's easy over here but when
you have multiple to pull elements that
live in different parts of the document.
Then it's not easy to hunt them down and
change their values.
So what can we do?
Well, we could use CSS variables.
So, if I set the duration here,
duration to 0.5 seconds,
I can substitute this value here.
So this is gonna be
variable duration oops.
And so now the animation delay here,
we could just set it as that duration.
But now we have to do something here.
We know that this is gonna happen,
after the first two animations.
So we have to use calc.
So inside of calc if we pass the duration
and we're gonna multiply it by two.
Okay, so now that we use CSS variables,
we see that they now happen
one after the other.
And so if we make this like really short.
We see that everything is working,
so that's pretty great.
Yeah, so we could even make it a second
and basically you get the idea.
We can also do what's called a stagger.
And so when you stagger animations,
that means that there's actually
some overlap between them.
So, instead of just var duration or
var duration,
we could say calc var duration and
subtracted by some sorta fixed value you.
So we could say just subtract
0.1 seconds here and
subtract 0.1 seconds here too.
[COUGH] Now some of you might
look at this and say hey,
that could be a CSS variable
to you're absolutely right.
So let's just call this stagger and
then negative 0.1 seconds.
And then we could just
replace each of these.
Okay, let's see what happened over here.
Let's make this actually more pronounced.
No.
It's because I'm subtracting so
there we go math is hard.
Okay so you see we almost have it working.
We just have to, let's see,
minus fair stagger and
we have to multiply that by two as well.
Okay, so now we have a stagger over there.
Okay, so if someone says like,
hey, I like your animation
with the three red balls looks really
nice but I wanna add a fourth one.
All of a sudden that becomes a little
bit of a headache because now you
have to add nth child four and
everything so what do we do in that case.
More CSS variables but this is actually
better because inside the HTML.
And this is pretty much the only thing
I like using this style type for,
is for setting that CSS variable.
So I like to use I as a variable
just like you would use an array.
And set that to the index of each
HTML element like in a list or
something like that now if you're
using a framework like view or react.
Then you could just when you're
mapping over items in the list you
already had this value so
it's pretty easy to do this dynamically.
And so now.
Instead of doing nth child,
we could pretty abstract this and
say this is gonna be animation move right.
And it's gonna be for the duration but
our delay is gonna be the calc
bear duration actually.
So we had to put this in
parentheses minus the stagger.
So actually,
we could just do this interval calc,
var duration minus var stagger.
Okay, so now we have each of
the intervals over here and
we are gonna multiply
that by that index value.
So if I get rid of all these.
Then, hopefully it works the same and
yet it works exactly the same.
So now in our HTML,
I could add maybe a couple more.
And there we go.
Now we have a nice stagger animation.
So the main idea here is that we're
using CSS variables to coordinate
animations between elements.
And so the reason that this is useful
is because these variables can
be defined actually at the parents.
So now you sorta have this shared context,
you have these values to where any
child element can read these values.
And say hey I wanna animate after
this thing animates well you could
grab that CSS variable from
the parents and do just that.
So that's the basics behind choreography.